6c basic information gathering (#1595)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x06c-Reverse-Engineering-and-Tampering.md

bash: # . ~/.bashrc
```

#### Basic Information Gathering

On iOS, collecting basic information about a running process or an application can be slightly more challenging than compared to Android. On Android (or any Linux-based OS), OS exposes process information as readable text files via *procfs*. Thus, any information about a desired process can be obtained by parsing these text files. In contrast, on iOS there is no procfs equivalent present. Also, on iOS many standard UNIX command lines tools for exploring process information, for instance `lsof` and `vmmap`, are removed to reduce the firmware size.

In this section we will learn how to collect process information on iOS using command line tools like `lsof`. Since many of these tools are not present on iOS by default, we need to install them via alternative methods. For instance, `lsof` can be installed using Cydia (the exectuable is not from the latest version, but nevertheless solves our purpose). `

> ##### Opened Files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Open Files
```

`lsof` command is a powerful tool, and provides plethora of information about a running process. It can provide list of all open files, including a stream, a network file or a regular file. `lsof` command when invoked without any option lists all open files belonging to all active processes on the system, while when invoking with options `-c <process name>` or `-p <pid>`, it returns the list of open files for the specified process. Command's man page discuss various other options in detail.

> Using `lsof` list of various open files for an iOS application running with PID 28282 is shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using `lsof` for an iOS application running with PID 2828, list various open files as shown below.
```

iOweApp 2828 mobile  txt    REG    1,3     5492 213230 /private/var/mobile/Containers/Data/Application/5AB3E437-9E2D-4F04-BD2B-972F6055699E/tmp/com.apple.dyld/iOweApp-6346DC276FE6865055F1194368EC73CC72E4C5224537F7F23DF19314CF6FD8AA.closure
iOweApp 2828 mobile  txt    REG    1,3    30628 212198 /private/var/preferences/Logging/.plist-cache.vqXhr1EE
iOweApp 2828 mobile  txt    REG    1,2    50080 234433 /usr/lib/libobjc-trampolines.dylib
iOweApp 2828 mobile  txt    REG    1,2   344204  74185 /System/Library/Fonts/AppFonts/ChalkboardSE.ttc
iOweApp 2828 mobile  txt    REG    1,2   664848 234595 /usr/lib/dyld
iOweApp 2828 mobile  txt    REG    1,2 30183936 235695 /usr/share/icu/icudt64l.dat
iOweApp 2828 mobile  txt    REG    1,2 92936040  74056 /System/Library/CoreServices/CoreGlyphs.bundle/Assets.car
iOweApp 2828 mobile  txt    REG    1,2  2169192  75023 /System/Library/Fonts/CoreUI/SFUI.ttf
iOweApp 2828 mobile  txt    REG    1,2  1202584  75408 /System/Library/Fonts/Core/Helvetica.ttc
iOweApp 2828 mobile    0r   CHR    3,2      0t0    197 /dev/null
iOweApp 2828 mobile    1u   CHR    3,2      0t0    197 /dev/null

> iOweApp 2828 mobile    2u   CHR    3,2    0t141    197 /dev/null

Reviewer: Could you please only list the first 4-5 lines and then make "..." and remove the rest?

```

> ##### Opened Connections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Open Connections
```

`lsof` command when invoved with option `-i`, it gives the list of open network ports for all active processes on the device. To get a list of open network ports for a specific process, the `lsof -i -a -p <pid>` command can be used, where `-a` (AND) option is used for filtering. Below a filtered output for PID 1 is shown.

```
iPhone:~ root# lsof -i -a -p 1
COMMAND PID USER   FD   TYPE             DEVICE SIZE/OFF NODE NAME
launchd   1 root    2u  IPv6 0x69c2ce210efdba03      0t0  TCP localhost:mpm-flags (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root    3u  IPv4 0x69c2ce21125bc873      0t0  TCP localhost:mpm-flags (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root    8u  IPv6 0x69c2ce210efdcc63      0t0  TCP localhost:intu-ec-client (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root    9u  IPv4 0x69c2ce210eeac873      0t0  TCP localhost:intu-ec-client (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   12u  IPv4 0x69c2ce210eeabebb      0t0  TCP localhost:socks (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   13u  IPv4 0x69c2ce210eeadbe3      0t0  TCP localhost:ansoft-lm-1 (LISTEN)

> launchd   1 root   14u  IPv6 0x69c2ce210efdc643      0t0  TCP *:62078 (LISTEN)

Reviewer: Could you please only list the first 4-5 lines and then make "..." and remove the rest?

launchd   1 root   15u  IPv4 0x69c2ce210eeae59b      0t0  TCP *:62078 (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   18u  IPv6 0x69c2ce210efdcc63      0t0  TCP localhost:intu-ec-client (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   19u  IPv4 0x69c2ce210eeac873      0t0  TCP localhost:intu-ec-client (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   20u  IPv6 0x69c2ce210efdba03      0t0  TCP localhost:mpm-flags (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   22u  IPv4 0x69c2ce210eeabebb      0t0  TCP localhost:socks (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   23u  IPv4 0x69c2ce210eeadbe3      0t0  TCP localhost:ansoft-lm-1 (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   24u  IPv4 0x69c2ce21125bc873      0t0  TCP localhost:mpm-flags (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   27u  IPv6 0x69c2ce210efdc023      0t0  TCP *:ssh (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   28u  IPv6 0x69c2ce210efdc023      0t0  TCP *:ssh (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   29u  IPv4 0x69c2ce210eeaef53      0t0  TCP *:ssh (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   30u  IPv4 0x69c2ce210eeaef53      0t0  TCP *:ssh (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   31u  IPv4 0x69c2ce211253b90b      0t0  TCP 192.168.1.12:ssh->192.168.1.8:62684 (ESTABLISHED)
launchd   1 root   42u  IPv4 0x69c2ce211253b90b      0t0  TCP 192.168.1.12:ssh->192.168.1.8:62684 (ESTABLISHED)
```

##### Sandbox Inspection

> On iOS, each application gets a sandboxed folder to store its data. As per the iOS security model, an application's sandboxed folder cannot be accessed by another application. Additionally, the users do not have direct access to the iOS filesystem, thus preventing browsing or extraction of data from the filesystem. In the earlier versions of iOS there were certain application available which can be used to browse the device's filesystem, but in the recent version of iOS the sandboxing rules are more stringent and these applications do not work anymore. As a result, sandboxed data on recent iOS versions, sandboxed data can only be accessed on a jailbroken device. As part of jailbreaking process, the application sandbox protection is disabled/weakened and thus enabling the an easy access to sandboxed folders.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On iOS, each application gets a sandboxed folder to store its data. As per the iOS security model, an application's sandboxed folder cannot be accessed by another application. Additionally, the users do not have direct access to the iOS filesystem, thus preventing browsing or extraction of data from the filesystem. In earlier versions of iOS there were applications available which can be used to browse the device's filesystem, but in the recent version of iOS the sandboxing rules are more stringent and these applications do not work anymore. As a result, if you need to access the filesystem it can only be accessed on a jailbroken device. As part of the jailbreaking process, the application sandbox protection is disabled and thus enabling an easy access to sandboxed folders.

If you want to only access the sandboxed data of an app, this can also be done on a non-jailbroken device by using objection and Frida. How this can be done is described in "[Accessing App Data Directories](0x06b-Basic-Security-Testing.md#accessing-app-data-directories)" in the chapter iOS Basic Security Testing. This chapter also gives an overview of the folder structure and which directories you should analyse. 
```

Reviewer: Do you have further information to which version of iOS you are referring to? Otherwise it's a big vague, as we do not mention the app name neither the iOS versions.

Reviewer: I was changing it, as the information is already described in great detail in our iOS basic security testing chapter, so it makes sense to link to this section, as otherwise we have redundant content. Hope that makes sense to you.
Please remove then line 414 till the end.

Author: You are correct, removed the content. Seems there are still unexplored corners for me :).

Reviewer: No worries, it's hard to know over 500 pages inside out :-)

launchd   1 root   30u  IPv4 0x69c2ce210eeaef53      0t0  TCP *:ssh (LISTEN)
launchd   1 root   31u  IPv4 0x69c2ce211253b90b      0t0  TCP 192.168.1.12:ssh->192.168.1.8:62684 (ESTABLISHED)
launchd   1 root   42u  IPv4 0x69c2ce211253b90b      0t0  TCP 192.168.1.12:ssh->192.168.1.8:62684 (ESTABLISHED)
```

##### Sandbox Inspection

On iOS, each application gets a sandboxed folder to store its data. As per the iOS security model, an application's sandboxed folder cannot be accessed by another application. Additionally, the users do not have direct access to the iOS filesystem, thus preventing browsing or extraction of data from the filesystem. In iOS < 8.3 there were applications available which can be used to browse the device's filesystem, such as iExplorer and iFunBox, but in the recent version of iOS (>8.3) the sandboxing rules are more stringent and these applications do not work anymore. As a result, if you need to access the filesystem it can only be accessed on a jailbroken device. As part of the jailbreaking process, the application sandbox protection is disabled and thus enabling an easy access to sandboxed folders.

> The contents of an application's sandboxed folder has been already discussed in "[Information Gathering](0x06b-basic-security-testing#information-gathering "Information Gathering")" section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The contents of an application's sandboxed folder has already been discussed in "[Accessing App Data Directories](0x06b-Basic-Security-Testing.md#accessing-app-data-directories)" in the chapter iOS Basic Security Testing. This chapter gives an overview of the folder structure and which directories you should analyse. 
```

Reviewer: The section Accessing App Data Directories describes it very well. So let's link to this section instead.

Author: Sure, I thought we generally link to the section and not to a sub-section (as in not too deep into hierarchy)? Or its case to case thing?

Reviewer: As long as it's accessible with a link, it should be fine. This should also work in Gitbook, otherwise we can still change.
